<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Lyrical Poems</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="lyrical-poems" epub:type="chapter">
			<article id="before-the-altar" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Before the Altar</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Before the Altar, bowed, he stands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With empty hands;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon it perfumed offerings burn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wreathing with smoke the sacrificial urn.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not one of all these has he given,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No flame of his has leapt to Heaven</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Firesouled, vermilion-hearted,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forked, and darted,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Consuming what a few spare pence</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Have cheaply bought, to fling from hence</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In idly-asked petition.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>His sole condition</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Love and poverty.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And while the moon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Swings slow across the sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Athwart a waving pine tree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And soon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tips all the needles there</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With silver sparkles, bitterly</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He gazes, while his soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grows hard with thinking of the poorness of his dole.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Shining and distant Goddess, hear my prayer</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where you swim in the high air!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With charity look down on me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Under this tree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tending the gifts I have not brought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The rare and goodly things</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I have not sought.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Instead, take from me all my life!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Upon the wings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of shimmering moonbeams</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I pack my poet’s dreams</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For you.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My wearying strife,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My courage, my loss,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into the night I toss</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For you.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Golden Divinity,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Deign to look down on me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who so unworthily</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Offers to you:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All life has known,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seeds withered unsown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hopes turning quick to fears,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Laughter which dies in tears.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The shredded remnant of a man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is all the span</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And compass of my offering to you.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Empty and silent, I</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Kneel before your pure, calm majesty.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On this stone, in this urn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I pour my heart and watch it burn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Myself the sacrifice; but be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still unmoved: Divinity.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>From the altar, bathed in moonlight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The smoke rose straight in the quiet night.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="suggested-by-the-cover-of-a-volume-of-keatss-poems" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Suggested by the Cover of a Volume of Keats’s Poems</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Wild little bird, who chose thee for a sign</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To put upon the cover of this book?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who heard thee singing in the distance dim,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The vague, far greenness of the enshrouding wood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the damp freshness of the morning earth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was full of pungent sweetness and thy song?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Who followed over moss and twisted roots,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And pushed through the wet leaves of trailing vines</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where slanting sunbeams gleamed uncertainly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While ever clearer came the dropping notes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Until, at last, two widening trunks disclosed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thee singing on a spray of branching beech,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hidden, then seen; and always that same song</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of joyful sweetness, rapture incarnate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Filled the hushed, rustling stillness of the wood?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We do not know what bird thou art. Perhaps</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That fairy bird, fabled in island tale,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who never sings but once, and then his song</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is of such fearful beauty that he dies</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From sheer exuberance of melody.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For this they took thee, little bird, for this</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They captured thee, tilting among the leaves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And stamped thee for a symbol on this book.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For it contains a song surpassing thine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Richer, more sweet, more poignant. And the poet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who felt this burning beauty, and whose heart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was full of loveliest things, sang all he knew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A little while, and then he died; too frail</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To bear this untamed, passionate burst of song.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="apples-of-hesperides" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Apples of Hesperides</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Glinting golden through the trees,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Apples of Hesperides!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through the moon-pierced warp of night</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shoot pale shafts of yellow light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Swaying to the kissing breeze</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Swings the treasure, golden-gleaming,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Apples of Hesperides!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Far and lofty yet they glimmer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Apples of Hesperides!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blinded by their radiant shimmer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pushing forward just for these;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dew-besprinkled, bramble-marred,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Poor duped mortal, travel-scarred,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Always thinking soon to seize</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And possess the golden-glistening</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Apples of Hesperides!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Orbed, and glittering, and pendent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Apples of Hesperides!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not one missing, still transcendent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clustering like a swarm of bees.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yielding to no man’s desire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Glowing with a saffron fire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Splendid, unassailed, the golden</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Apples of Hesperides!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="azure-and-gold" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Azure and Gold</h2>
				<p>
					<span>April had covered the hills</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With flickering yellows and reds,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sparkle and coolness of snow</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was blown from the mountain beds.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Across a deep-sunken stream</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The pink of blossoming trees,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And from windless appleblooms</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The humming of many bees.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The air was of rose and gold</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Arabesqued with the song of birds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who, swinging unseen under leaves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Made music more eager than words.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Of a sudden, aslant the road,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A brightness to dazzle and stun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A glint of the bluest blue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A flash from a sapphire sun.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Blue-birds so blue, ‘t was a dream,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">An impossible, unconceived hue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The high sky of summer dropped down</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Some rapturous ocean to woo.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Such a colour, such infinite light!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The heart of a fabulous gem,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Many-faceted, brilliant and rare.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Centre Stone of the earth’s diadem!</span>
				</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>
					<span>Centre Stone of the Crown of the World,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“Sincerity” graved on your youth!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And your eyes hold the blue-bird flash,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The sapphire shaft, which is truth.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="petals" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Petals</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Life is a stream</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On which we strew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Petal by petal the flower of our heart;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The end lost in dream,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They float past our view,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We only watch their glad, early start.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Freighted with hope,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Crimsoned with joy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We scatter the leaves of our opening rose;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their widening scope,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their distant employ,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We never shall know. And the stream as it flows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sweeps them away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each one is gone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ever beyond into infinite ways.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We alone stay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While years hurry on,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The flower fared forth, though its fragrance still stays.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="venetian-glass" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Venetian Glass</h2>
				<p>
					<span>As one who sails upon a wide, blue sea</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Far out of sight of land, his mind intent</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the sailing of his little boat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On tightening ropes and shaping fair his course,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hears suddenly, across the restless sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The rhythmic striking of some towered clock,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And wakes from thoughtless idleness to time:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Time, the slow pulse which beats eternity!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So through the vacancy of busy life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At intervals you cross my path and bring</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The deep solemnity of passing years.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For you I have shed bitter tears, for you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I have relinquished that for which my heart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cried out in selfish longing. And to-night</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Having just left you, I can say: “ ‘T is well.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thank God that I have known a soul so true,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So nobly just, so worthy to be loved!”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="fatigue" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Fatigue</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Stupefy my heart to every day’s monotony,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Seal up my eyes, I would not look so far,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Chasten my steps to peaceful regularity,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Bow down my head lest I behold a star.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Fill my days with work, a thousand calm necessities</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Leaving no moment to consecrate to hope,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Girdle my thoughts within the dull circumferences</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of facts which form the actual in one short hour’s scope.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Give me dreamless sleep, and loose night’s power over me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Shut my ears to sounds only tumultuous then,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bid Fancy slumber, and steal away its potency,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or Nature wakes and strives to live again.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Let each day pass, well ordered in its usefulness,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Unlit by sunshine, unscarred by storm;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dower me with strength and curb all foolish eagerness⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The law exacts obedience. Instruct, I will conform.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-japanese-wood-carving" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">A Japanese Wood-Carving</h2>
				<p>
					<span>High up above the open, welcoming door</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It hangs, a piece of wood with colours dim.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Once, long ago, it was a waving tree</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And knew the sun and shadow through the leaves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of forest trees, in a thick eastern wood.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The winter snows had bent its branches down,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The spring had swelled its buds with coming flowers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Summer had run like fire through its veins,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While autumn pelted it with chestnut burrs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And strewed the leafy ground with acorn cups.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dark midnight storms had roared and crashed among</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its branches, breaking here and there a limb;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But every now and then broad sunlit days</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lovingly lingered, caught among the leaves.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yes, it had known all this, and yet to us</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It does not speak of mossy forest ways,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of whispering pine trees or the shimmering birch;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But of quick winds, and the salt, stinging sea!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An artist once, with patient, careful knife,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had fashioned it like to the untamed sea.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here waves uprear themselves, their tops blown back</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the gay, sunny wind, which whips the blue</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And breaks it into gleams and sparks of light.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Among the flashing waves are two white birds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which swoop, and soar, and scream for very joy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At the wild sport. Now diving quickly in,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Questing some glistening fish. Now flying up,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their dripping feathers shining in the sun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While the wet drops like little glints of light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fall pattering backward to the parent sea.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gliding along the green and foam-flecked hollows,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or skimming some white crest about to break,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The spirits of the sky deigning to stoop</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And play with ocean in a summer mood.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hanging above the high, wide open door,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It brings to us in quiet, firelit room,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The freedom of the earth’s vast solitudes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where heaping, sunny waves tumble and roll,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And seabirds scream in wanton happiness.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-little-song" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">A Little Song</h2>
				<p>
					<span>When you, my Dear, are away, away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How wearily goes the creeping day.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A year drags after morning, and night</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Starts another year of candle light.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O Pausing Sun and Lingering Moon!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grant me, I beg of you, this boon.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Whirl round the earth as never sun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has his diurnal journey run.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, Moon, slip past the ladders of air</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In a single flash, while your streaming hair</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Catches the stars and pulls them down</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To shine on some slumbering Chinese town.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O Kindly Sun! Understanding Moon!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bring evening to crowd the footsteps of noon.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But when that long awaited day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hangs ripe in the heavens, your voyaging stay.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be morning, O Sun! with the lark in song,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be afternoon for ages long.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, Moon, let you and your lesser lights</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Watch over a century of nights.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="behind-a-wall" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Behind a Wall</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I own a solace shut within my heart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A garden full of many a quaint delight</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And warm with drowsy, poppied sunshine; bright,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flaming with lilies out of whose cups dart</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Shining things</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">With powdered wings.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Here terrace sinks to terrace, arbors close</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The ends of dreaming paths; a wanton wind</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Jostles the half-ripe pears, and then, unkind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tumbles a-slumber in a pillar rose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">With content</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Grown indolent.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>By night my garden is o’erhung with gems</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Fixed in an onyx setting. Fireflies</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Flicker their lanterns in my dazzled eyes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In serried rows I guess the straight, stiff stems</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Of hollyhocks</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Against the rocks.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So far and still it is that, listening,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I hear the flowers talking in the dawn;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And where a sunken basin cuts the lawn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cinctured with iris, pale and glistening,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">The sudden swish</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Of a waking fish.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-winter-ride" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">A Winter Ride</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Who shall declare the joy of the running!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who shall tell of the pleasures of flight!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Springing and spurning the tufts of wild heather,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Sweeping, wide-winged, through the blue dome of light.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Everything mortal has moments immortal,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Swift and God-gifted, immeasurably bright.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So with the stretch of the white road before me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Shining snowcrystals rainbowed by the sun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fields that are white, stained with long, cool, blue shadows,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Strong with the strength of my horse as we run.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Joy in the touch of the wind and the sunlight!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Joy! With the vigorous earth I am one.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-coloured-print-by-shokei" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">A Coloured Print by Shokei</h2>
				<p>
					<span>It winds along the face of a cliff</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">This path which I long to explore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And over it dashes a waterfall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the air is full of the roar</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the thunderous voice of waters which sweep</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In a silver torrent over some steep.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It clears the path with a mighty bound</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And tumbles below and away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the trees and the bushes which grow in the rocks</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Are wet with its jewelled spray;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The air is misty and heavy with sound,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And small, wet wildflowers star the ground.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Oh! The dampness is very good to smell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the path is soft to tread,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And beyond the fall it winds up and on,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">While little streamlets thread</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their own meandering way down the hill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each singing its own little song, until</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I forget that ‘t is only a pictured path,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And I hear the water and wind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And look through the mist, and strain my eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To see what there is behind;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For it must lead to a happy land,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This little path by a waterfall spanned.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="song" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Song</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Oh! To be a flower</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nodding in the sun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bending, then upspringing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As the breezes run;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Holding up</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A scent-brimmed cup,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Full of summer’s fragrance to the summer sun.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Oh! To be a butterfly</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Still, upon a flower,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Winking with its painted wings,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Happy in the hour.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blossoms hold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mines of gold</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Deep within the farthest heart of each chaliced flower.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Oh! To be a cloud</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Blowing through the blue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shadowing the mountains,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Rushing loudly through</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Valleys deep</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where torrents keep</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Always their plunging thunder and their misty arch of blue.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Oh! To be a wave</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Splintering on the sand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Drawing back, but leaving</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Lingeringly the land.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rainbow light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flashes bright</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Telling tales of coral caves half hid in yellow sand.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Soon they die, the flowers;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Insects live a day;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clouds dissolve in showers;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Only waves at play</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Last forever.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shall endeavor</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Make a sea of purpose mightier than we dream to-day?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-fool-errant" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Fool Errant</h2>
				<p>
					<span>The Fool Errant sat by the highway of life</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And his gaze wandered up and his gaze wandered down,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A vigorous youth, but with no wish to walk,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Yet his longing was great for the distant town.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He whistled a little frivolous tune</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Which he felt to be pulsing with ecstasy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For he thought that success always followed desire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Such a very superlative fool was he.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A maiden came by on an ambling mule,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Her gown was rose-red and her kerchief blue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On her lap she carried a basket of eggs.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thought the fool, “There is certainly room for two.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So he jauntily swaggered towards the maid</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And put out his hand to the bridle-rein.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“My pretty girl,” quoth the fool, “take me up,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For to ride with you to the town I am fain.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But the maiden struck at his upraised arm</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And pelted him hotly with eggs, a score.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The mule, lashed into a fury, ran;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The fool went back to his stone and swore.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then out of the cloud of settling dust</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The burly form of an abbot appeared,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reading his office he rode to the town.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the fool got up, for his heart was cheered.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He stood in the midst of the long, white road</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And swept off his cap till it touched the ground.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Ah, Reverent Sir, well met,” said the fool,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“A worthier transport never was found.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“I pray you allow me to mount with you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your palfrey seems both sturdy and young.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The abbot looked up from the holy book</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And cried out in anger, “Hold your tongue!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“How dare you obstruct the King’s highroad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You saucy varlet, get out of my way.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then he gave the fool a cut with his whip</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And leaving him smarting, he rode away.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The fool was angry, the fool was sore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And he cursed the folly of monks and maids.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“If I could but meet with a man,” sighed the fool,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“For a woman fears, and a friar upbraids.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then he saw a flashing of distant steel</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the clanking of harness greeted his ears,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And up the road journeyed knights-at-arms,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With waving plumes and glittering spears.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The fool took notice and slowly arose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Not quite so sure was his foolish heart.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If priests and women would none of him</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was it likely a knight would take his part?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>They sang as they rode, these lusty boys,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When one chanced to turn toward the highway’s side,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“There’s a sorry figure of fun,” jested he,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“Well, Sirrah! move back, there is scarce room to ride.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Good Sirs, Kind Sirs,” begged the crestfallen fool,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“I pray of your courtesy speech with you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’m for yonder town, and have no horse to ride,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Have you never a charger will carry two?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then the company halted and laughed out loud.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“Was such a request ever made to a knight?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“And where are your legs,” asked one, “if you start,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You may be inside the town gates to-night.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“ ‘T is a lazy fellow, let him alone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They’ve no room in the town for such idlers as he.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But one bent from his saddle and said, “My man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Art thou not ashamed to beg charity!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Thou art well set up, and thy legs are strong,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But it much misgives me lest thou’rt a fool;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For beggars get only a beggar’s crust,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Wise men are reared in a different school.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then they clattered away in the dust and the wind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the fool slunk back to his lonely stone;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He began to see that the man who asks</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Must likewise give and not ask alone.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Purple tree-shadows crept over the road,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The level sun flung an orange light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the fool laid his head on the hard, gray stone</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And wept as he realized advancing night.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A great, round moon rose over a hill</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the steady wind blew yet more cool;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And crouched on a stone a wayfarer sobbed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For at last he knew he was only a fool.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-green-bowl" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Green Bowl</h2>
				<p>
					<span>This little bowl is like a mossy pool</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In a Spring wood, where dogtooth violets grow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nodding in chequered sunshine of the trees;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A quiet place, still, with the sound of birds,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where, though unseen, is heard the endless song</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And murmur of the never resting sea.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘T was winter, Roger, when you made this cup,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But coming Spring guided your eager hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And round the edge you fashioned young green leaves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A proper chalice made to hold the shy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And little flowers of the woods. And here</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They will forget their sad uprooting, lost</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In pleasure that this circle of bright leaves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Should be their setting; once more they will dream</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They hear winds wandering through lofty trees</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And see the sun smiling between the leaves.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="hora-stellatrix" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Hora Stellatrix</h2>
				<p>
					<span>The stars hang thick in the apple tree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The south wind smells of the pungent sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gold tulip cups are heavy with dew.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The night’s for you, Sweetheart, for you!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Starfire rains from the vaulted blue.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Listen! The dancing of unseen leaves.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A drowsy swallow stirs in the eaves.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Only a maiden is sorrowing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘T is night and spring, Sweetheart, and spring!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Starfire lights your heart’s blossoming.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In the intimate dark there’s never an ear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though the tulips stand on tiptoe to hear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So give; ripe fruit must shrivel or fall.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As you are mine, Sweetheart, give all!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Starfire sparkles, your coronal.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="fragment" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Fragment</h2>
				<p>
					<span>What is poetry? Is it a mosaic</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of coloured stones which curiously are wrought</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Into a pattern? Rather glass that’s taught</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By patient labor any hue to take</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And glowing with a sumptuous splendor, make</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Beauty a thing of awe; where sunbeams caught,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Transmuted fall in sheafs of rainbows fraught</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With storied meaning for religion’s sake.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="loon-point" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Loon Point</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Softly the water ripples</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Against the canoe’s curving side,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Softly the birch trees rustle</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Flinging over us branches wide.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Softly the moon glints and glistens</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As the water takes and leaves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like golden ears of corn</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Which fall from loose-bound sheaves,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Or like the snow-white petals</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Which drop from an overblown rose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When Summer ripens to Autumn</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the freighted year must close.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>From the shore come the scents of a garden,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And between a gap in the trees</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A proud white statue glimmers</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In cold, disdainful ease.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The child of a southern people,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The thought of an alien race,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What does she in this pale, northern garden,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">How reconcile it with her grace?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But the moon in her wayward beauty</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is ever and always the same,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As lovely as when upon Latmos</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">She watched till Endymion came.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Through the water the moon writes her legends</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In light, on the smooth, wet sand;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They endure for a moment, and vanish,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And no one may understand.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>All round us the secret of Nature</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is telling itself to our sight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We may guess at her meaning but never</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Can know the full mystery of night.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But her power of enchantment is on us,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We bow to the spell which she weaves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Made up of the murmur of waves</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the manifold whisper of leaves.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="summer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Summer</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Some men there are who find in nature all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their inspiration, hers the sympathy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which spurs them on to any great endeavor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To them the fields and woods are closest friends,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And they hold dear communion with the hills;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The voice of waters soothes them with its fall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the great winds bring healing in their sound.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To them a city is a prison house</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where pent up human forces labour and strive,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where beauty dwells not, driven forth by man;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But where in winter they must live until</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Summer gives back the spaces of the hills.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To me it is not so. I love the earth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all the gifts of her so lavish hand:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sunshine and flowers, rivers and rushing winds,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thick branches swaying in a winter storm,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And moonlight playing in a boat’s wide wake;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But more than these, and much, ah, how much more,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I love the very human heart of man.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Above me spreads the hot, blue mid-day sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Far down the hillside lies the sleeping lake</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lazily reflecting back the sun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And scarcely ruffled by the little breeze</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which wanders idly through the nodding ferns.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The blue crest of the distant mountain, tops</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The green crest of the hill on which I sit;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And it is summer, glorious, deep-toned summer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The very crown of nature’s changing year</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When all her surging life is at its full.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To me alone it is a time of pause,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A void and silent space between two worlds,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When inspiration lags, and feeling sleeps,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gathering strength for efforts yet to come.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For life alone is creator of life,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And closest contact with the human world</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is like a lantern shining in the night</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To light me to a knowledge of myself.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I love the vivid life of winter months</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In constant intercourse with human minds,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When every new experience is gain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And on all sides we feel the great world’s heart;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The pulse and throb of life which makes us men!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-morrow-to-fresh-woods-and-pastures-new" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">“To-morrow to Fresh Woods and Pastures New”</h2>
				<p>
					<span>As for a moment he stands, in hardy masculine beauty,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Poised on the fircrested rock, over the pool which below him</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gleams in the wavering sunlight, waiting the shock of his plunging.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So for a moment I stand, my feet planted firm in the present,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Eagerly scanning the future which is so soon to possess me.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-way" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Way</h2>
				<p>
					<span>At first a mere thread of a footpath half blotted out by the grasses</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sweeping triumphant across it, it wound between hedges of roses</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose blossoms were poised above leaves as pond lilies float on the water,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While hidden by bloom in a hawthorn a bird filled the morning with singing.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It widened a highway, majestic, stretching ever to distant horizons,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where shadows of tree-branches wavered, vague outlines invaded by sunshine;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No sound but the wind as it whispered the secrets of earth to the flowers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the hum of the yellow bees, honey-laden and dusty with pollen.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Summer said, “Come, follow onward, with no thought save the longing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">to wander,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wind, and the bees, and the flowers, all singing the great song</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">of Nature,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are minstrels of change and of promise, they herald the joy of the Future.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Later the solitude vanished, confused and distracted the road</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where many were seeking and jostling. Left behind were the trees</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">and the flowers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The half-realized beauty of quiet, the sacred unconscious communing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And now he is come to a river, a line of gray, sullen water,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not blue and splashing, but dark, rolling somberly on to the ocean.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But on the far side is a city whose windows flame gold in the sunset.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It lies fair and shining before him, a gem set betwixt sky and water,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And spanning the river a bridge, frail promise to longing desire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flung by man in his infinite courage, across the stern force of the water;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he looks at the river and fears, the bridge is so slight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">yet he ventures</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His life to its fragile keeping, if it fails the waves will engulf him.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O Arches! be strong to uphold him, and bear him across to the city,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The beautiful city whose spires still glow with the fires of sunset!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="diya" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">ΔƖΨΑ</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Look, Dear, how bright the moonlight is to-night!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>See where it casts the shadow of that tree</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Far out upon the grass. And every gust</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of light night wind comes laden with the scent</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of opening flowers which never bloom by day:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Night-scented stocks, and four-o’clocks, and that</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pale yellow disk, upreared on its tall stalk,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The evening primrose, comrade of the stars.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It seems as though the garden which you love</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were like a swinging censer, its incense</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Floating before us as a reverent act</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To sanctify and bless our night of love.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tell me once more you love me, that ‘t is you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yes, really you, I touch, so, with my hand;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And tell me it is by your own free will</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That you are here, and that you like to be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Just here, with me, under this sailing pine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I need to hear it often for my heart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Doubts naturally, and finds it hard to trust.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah, Dearest, you are good to love me so,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And yet I would not have it goodness, rather</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Excess of selfishness in you to need</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Me through and through, as flowers need the sun.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I wonder can it really be that you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I are here alone, and that the night</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is full of hours, and all the world asleep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And none can call to you to come away;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For you have given all yourself to me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Making me gentle by your willingness.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has your life too been waiting for this time,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not only mine the sharpness of this joy?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dear Heart, I love you, worship you as though</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I were a priest before a holy shrine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’m glad that you are beautiful, although</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were you not lovely still I needs must love;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But you are all things, it must have been so</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For otherwise it were not you. Come, close;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When you are in the circle of my arm</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Faith grows a mountain and I take my stand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon its utmost top. Yes, yes, once more</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Kiss me, and let me feel you very near</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wanting me wholly, even as I want you.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Have years behind been dark? Will those to come</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bring unguessed sorrows into our two lives?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What does it matter, we have had to-night!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To-night will make us strong, for we believe</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each in the other, this is a sacrament.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beloved, is it true?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="roads" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Roads</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I know a country laced with roads,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They join the hills and they span the brooks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They weave like a shuttle between broad fields,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And slide discreetly through hidden nooks.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They are canopied like a Persian dome</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And carpeted with orient dyes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They are myriad-voiced, and musical,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And scented with happiest memories.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O Winding roads that I know so well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Every twist and turn, every hollow and hill!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They are set in my heart to a pulsing tune</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Gay as a honey-bee humming in June.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘T is the rhythmic beat of a horse’s feet</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the pattering paws of a sheep-dog bitch;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘T is the creaking trees, and the singing breeze,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the rustle of leaves in the road-side ditch.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A cow in a meadow shakes her bell</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the notes cut sharp through the autumn air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each chattering brook bears a fleet of leaves</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Their cargo the rainbow, and just now where</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The sun splashed bright on the road ahead</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A startled rabbit quivered and fled.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">O Uphill roads and roads that dip down!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You curl your sun-spattered length along,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And your march is beaten into a song</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the softly ringing hoofs of a horse</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the panting breath of the dogs I love.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The pageant of Autumn follows its course</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the blue sky of Autumn laughs above.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And the song and the country become as one,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I see it as music, I hear it as light;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Prismatic and shimmering, trembling to tone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The land of desire, my soul’s delight.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And always it beats in my listening ears</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With the gentle thud of a horse’s stride,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the swift-falling steps of many dogs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Following, following at my side.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O Roads that journey to fairyland!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Radiant highways whose vistas gleam,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Leading me on, under crimson leaves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To the opaline gates of the Castles of Dream.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="teatro-bambino" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h2 epub:type="title">Teatro Bambino</h2>
					<p>Dublin, N. H.</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>How still it is! Sunshine itself here falls</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In quiet shafts of light through the high trees</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which, arching, make a roof above the walls</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Changing from sun to shadow as each breeze</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lingers a moment, charmed by the strange sight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of an Italian theatre, storied, seer</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of vague romance, and time’s long history;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where tiers of grass-grown seats sprinkled with white,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Sweet-scented clover, form a broken sphere</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Grouped round the stage in hushed expectancy.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>What sound is that which echoes through the wood?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is it the reedy note of an oaten pipe?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Perchance a minute more will see the brood</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of the shaggy forest god, and on his lip</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will rest the rushes he is wont to play.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His train in woven baskets bear ripe fruit</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And weave a dance with ropes of gray acorns,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So light their touch the grasses scarcely sway</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As they the measure tread to the lilting flute.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Alas! ‘t is only Fancy thus adorns.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A cloud drifts idly over the shining sun.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">How damp it seems, how silent, still, and strange!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Surely ‘t was here some tragedy was done,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And here the chorus sang each coming change?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sure this is deep in some sweet, southern wood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">These are not pines, but cypress tall and dark;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That is no thrush which sings so rapturously,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the nightingale in his most passionate mood</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Bursting his little heart with anguish. Hark!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The tread of sandalled feet comes noiselessly.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The silence almost is a sound, and dreams</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Take on the semblances of finite things;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So potent is the spell that what but seems</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Elsewhere, is lifted here on Fancy’s wings.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The little woodland theatre seems to wait,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">All tremulous with hope and wistful joy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For something that is sure to come at last,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some deep emotion, satisfying, great.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It grows a living presence, bold and shy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Cradling the future in a glorious past.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-road-to-avignon" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Road to Avignon</h2>
				<p>
					<span>A Minstrel stands on a marble stair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blown by the bright wind, debonair;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Below lies the sea, a sapphire floor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Above on the terrace a turret door</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Frames a lady, listless and wan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But fair for the eye to rest upon.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The minstrel plucks at his silver strings,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And looking up to the lady, sings:⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Down the road to Avignon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">The long, long road to Avignon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Across the bridge to Avignon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">One morning in the spring.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The octagon tower casts a shade</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cool and gray like a cutlass blade;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In sun-baked vines the cicalas spin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The little green lizards run out and in.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A sail dips over the ocean’s rim,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bubbles rise to the fountain’s brim.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The minstrel touches his silver strings,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And gazing up to the lady, sings:⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Down the road to Avignon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">The long, long road to Avignon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Across the bridge to Avignon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">One morning in the spring.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Slowly she walks to the balustrade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Idly notes how the blossoms fade</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the sun’s caress; then crosses where</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The shadow shelters a carven chair.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within its curve, supine she lies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And wearily closes her tired eyes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The minstrel beseeches his silver strings,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And holding the lady spellbound, sings:⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Down the road to Avignon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">The long, long road to Avignon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Across the bridge to Avignon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">One morning in the spring.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Clouds sail over the distant trees,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Petals are shaken down by the breeze,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They fall on the terrace tiles like snow;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sighing of waves sounds, far below.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A humming-bird kisses the lips of a rose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then laden with honey and love he goes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The minstrel woos with his silver strings,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And climbing up to the lady, sings:⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Down the road to Avignon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">The long, long road to Avignon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Across the bridge to Avignon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">One morning in the spring.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Step by step, and he comes to her,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fearful lest she suddenly stir.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sunshine and silence, and each to each,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The lute and his singing their only speech;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He leans above her, her eyes unclose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The humming-bird enters another rose.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The minstrel hushes his silver strings.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hark! The beating of humming-birds’ wings!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Down the road to Avignon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">The long, long road to Avignon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Across the bridge to Avignon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">One morning in the spring.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="new-york-at-night" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">New York at Night</h2>
				<p>
					<span>A near horizon whose sharp jags</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Cut brutally into a sky</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of leaden heaviness, and crags</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of houses lift their masonry</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ugly and foul, and chimneys lie</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And snort, outlined against the gray</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of lowhung cloud. I hear the sigh</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The goaded city gives, not day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor night can ease her heart, her anguished labours stay.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Below, straight streets, monotonous,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From north and south, from east and west,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stretch glittering; and luminous</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Above, one tower tops the rest</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And holds aloft man’s constant quest:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Time! Joyless emblem of the greed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of millions, robber of the best</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which earth can give, the vulgar creed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has seared upon the night its flaming ruthless screed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O Night! Whose soothing presence brings</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The quiet shining of the stars.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O Night! Whose cloak of darkness clings</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">So intimately close that scars</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Are hid from our own eyes. Beggars</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By day, our wealth is having night</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To burn our souls before altars</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dim and tree-shadowed, where the light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is shed from a young moon, mysteriously bright.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Where art thou hiding, where thy peace?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">This is the hour, but thou art not.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will waking tumult never cease?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Hast thou thy votary forgot?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nature forsakes this man-begot</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And festering wilderness, and now</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The long still hours are here, no jot</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of dear communing do I know;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Instead the glaring, man-filled city groans below!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-fairy-tale" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">A Fairy Tale</h2>
				<p>
					<span>On winter nights beside the nursery fire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We read the fairy tale, while glowing coals</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Builded its pictures. There before our eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We saw the vaulted hall of traceried stone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Uprear itself, the distant ceiling hung</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With pendent stalactites like frozen vines;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all along the walls at intervals,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Curled upwards into pillars, roses climbed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And ramped and were confined, and clustered leaves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Divided where there peered a laughing face.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The foliage seemed to rustle in the wind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A silent murmur, carved in still, gray stone.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>High pointed windows pierced the southern wall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whence proud escutcheons flung prismatic fires</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To stain the tessellated marble floor</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With pools of red, and quivering green, and blue;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in the shade beyond the further door,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its sober squares of black and white were hid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beneath a restless, shuffling, wide-eyed mob</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of lackeys and retainers come to view</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Christening.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A sudden blare of trumpets, and the throng</span>
					<br/>
					<span>About the entrance parted as the guests</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Filed singly in with rare and precious gifts.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our eager fancies noted all they brought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The glorious, unattainable delights!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But always there was one unbidden guest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who cursed the child and left it bitterness.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The fire falls asunder, all is changed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am no more a child, and what I see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is not a fairy tale, but life, my life.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The gifts are there, the many pleasant things:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Health, wealth, long-settled friendships, with a name</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which honors all who bear it, and the power</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of making words obedient. This is much;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But overshadowing all is still the curse,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That never shall I be fulfilled by love!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Along the parching highroad of the world</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No other soul shall bear mine company.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Always shall I be teased with semblances,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With cruel impostures, which I trust awhile</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then dash to pieces, as a careless boy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flings a kaleidoscope, which shattering</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Strews all the ground about with coloured sherds.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So I behold my visions on the ground</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No longer radiant, an ignoble heap</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of broken, dusty glass. And so, unlit,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even by hope or faith, my dragging steps</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Force me forever through the passing days.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="crowned" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Crowned</h2>
				<p>
					<span>You came to me bearing bright roses,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Red like the wine of your heart;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You twisted them into a garland</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To set me aside from the mart.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Red roses to crown me your lover,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And I walked aureoled and apart.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Enslaved and encircled, I bore it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Proud token of my gift to you.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The petals waned paler, and shriveled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And dropped; and the thorns started through.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bitter thorns to proclaim me your lover,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A diadem woven with rue.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-elizabeth-ward-perkins" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">To Elizabeth Ward Perkins</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Dear Bessie, would my tired rhyme</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Had force to rise from apathy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And shaking off its lethargy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ring word-tones like a Christmas chime.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But in my soul’s high belfry, chill</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The bitter wind of doubt has blown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The summer swallows all have flown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The bells are frost-bound, mute and still.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Upon the crumbling boards the snow</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Has drifted deep, the clappers hang</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Prismed with icicles, their clang</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unheard since ages long ago.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The rope I pull is stiff and cold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My straining ears detect no sound</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Except a sigh, as round and round</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wind rocks through the timbers old.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Below, I know the church is bright</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With haloed tapers, warm with prayer;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But here I only feel the air</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of icy centuries of night.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Beneath my feet the snow is lit</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And gemmed with colours, red, and blue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Topaz, and green, where light falls through</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The saints that in the windows sit.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Here darkness seems a spectred thing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Voiceless and haunting, while the stars</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Mock with a light of long dead years</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The ache of present suffering.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Silent and winter-killed I stand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">No carol hymns my debt to you;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But take this frozen thought in lieu,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And thaw its music in your hand.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-promise-of-the-morning-star" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Promise of the Morning Star</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Thou father of the children of my brain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By thee engendered in my willing heart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">How can I thank thee for this gift of art</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Poured out so lavishly, and not in vain.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>What thou created never more can die,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thy fructifying power lives in me</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And I conceive, knowing it is by thee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dear other parent of my poetry!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For I was but a shadow with a name,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Perhaps by now the very name’s forgot;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">So strange is Fate that it has been my lot</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To learn through thee the presence of that aim</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Which evermore must guide me. All unknown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By me unguessed, by thee not even dreamed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A tree has blossomed in a night that seemed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of stubborn, barren wood. For thou hast sown</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>This seed of beauty in a ground of truth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Humbly I dedicate myself, and yet</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I tremble with a sudden fear to set</span>
					<br/>
					<span>New music ringing through my fading youth.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="j-k-huysmans" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">J⁠—K. Huysmans</h2>
				<p>
					<span>A flickering glimmer through a window-pane,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A dim red glare through mud bespattered glass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cleaving a path between blown walls of sleet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Across uneven pavements sunk in slime</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To scatter and then quench itself in mist.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And struggling, slipping, often rudely hurled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Against the jutting angle of a wall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And cursed, and reeled against, and flung aside</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By drunken brawlers as they shuffled past,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A man was groping to what seemed a light.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His eyelids burnt and quivered with the strain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of looking, and against his temples beat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The all enshrouding, suffocating dark.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He stumbled, lurched, and struck against a door</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That opened, and a howl of obscene mirth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grated his senses, wallowing on the floor</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lay men, and dogs and women in the dirt.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He sickened, loathing it, and as he gazed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The candle guttered, flared, and then went out.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Through travail of ignoble midnight streets</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He came at last to shelter in a porch</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where gothic saints and warriors made a shield</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To cover him, and tortured gargoyles spat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One long continuous stream of silver rain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That clattered down from myriad roofs and spires</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into a darkness, loud with rushing sound</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of water falling, gurgling as it fell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But always thickly dark. Then as he leaned</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unconscious where, the great oak door blew back</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And cast him, bruised and dripping, in the church.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His eyes from long sojourning in the night</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were blinded now as by some glorious sun;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He slowly crawled toward the altar steps.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He could not think, for heavy in his ears</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An organ boomed majestic harmonies;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He only knew that what he saw was light!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He bowed himself before a cross of flame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And shut his eyes in fear lest it should fade.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="march-evening" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">March Evening</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Blue through the window burns the twilight;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Heavy, through trees, blows the warm south wind.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Glistening, against the chill, gray sky light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Wet, black branches are barred and entwined.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sodden and spongy, the scarce-green grass plot</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Dents into pools where a foot has been.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Puddles lie spilt in the road a mass, not</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of water, but steel, with its cold, hard sheen.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Faint fades the fire on the hearth, its embers</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Scattering wide at a stronger gust.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Above, the old weathercock groans, but remembers</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Creaking, to turn, in its centuried rust.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Dying, forlorn, in dreary sorrow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Wrapping the mists round her withering form,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Day sinks down; and in darkness to-morrow</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Travails to birth in the womb of the storm.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
