<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Sonnets</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="sonnets" epub:type="chapter">
			<article id="leisure" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Leisure</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Leisure, thou goddess of a bygone age,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When hours were long and days sufficed to hold</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Wide-eyed delights and pleasures uncontrolled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By shortening moments, when no gaunt presage</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of undone duties, modern heritage,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Haunted our happy minds; must thou withhold</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thy presence from this over-busy world,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bearing silence with thee disengage</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Our twined fortunes? Deeps of unhewn woods</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Alone can cherish thee, alone possess</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy quiet, teeming vigor. This our crime:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Not to have worshipped, marred by alien moods</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That sole condition of all loveliness,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The dreaming lapse of slow, unmeasured time.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-carpaccios-picture-the-dream-of-st-ursula" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h2 epub:type="title">On Carpaccio’s Picture</h2>
					<h3>The Dream of St. Ursula</h3>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Swept, clean, and still, across the polished floor</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From some unshuttered casement, hid from sight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The level sunshine slants, its greater light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Quenching the little lamp which pallid, poor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flickering, unreplenished, at the door</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Has striven against darkness the long night.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Dawn fills the room, and penetrating, bright,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The silent sunbeams through the window pour.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And she lies sleeping, ignorant of Fate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Enmeshed in listless dreams, her soul not yet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ripened to bear the purport of this day.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The morning breeze scarce stirs the coverlet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A shadow falls across the sunlight; wait!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A lark is singing as he flies away.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-matrix" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Matrix</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Goaded and harassed in the factory</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That tears our life up into bits of days</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ticked off upon a clock which never stays,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shredding our portion of Eternity,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We break away at last, and steal the key</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Which hides a world empty of hours; ways</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of space unroll, and Heaven overlays</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The leafy, sun-lit earth of Fantasy.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Beyond the ilex shadow glares the sun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Scorching against the blue flame of the sky.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Brown lily-pads lie heavy and supine</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Within a granite basin, under one</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The bronze-gold glimmer of a carp; and I</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reach out my hand and pluck a nectarine.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="monadnock-in-early-spring" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Monadnock in Early Spring</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Cloud-topped and splendid, dominating all</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The little lesser hills which compass thee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thou standest, bright with April’s buoyancy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet holding Winter in some shaded wall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of stern, steep rock; and startled by the call</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of Spring, thy trees flush with expectancy</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And cast a cloud of crimson, silently,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Above thy snowy crevices where fall</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pale shrivelled oak leaves, while the snow beneath</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Melts at their phantom touch. Another year</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is quick with import. Such each year has been.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Unmoved thou watchest all, and all bequeath</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Some jewel to thy diadem of power,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou pledge of greater majesty unseen.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-little-garden" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Little Garden</h2>
				<p>
					<span>A little garden on a bleak hillside</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where deep the heavy, dazzling mountain snow</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Lies far into the spring. The sun’s pale glow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is scarcely able to melt patches wide</span>
					<br/>
					<span>About the single rose bush. All denied</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of nature’s tender ministries. But no⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For wonder-working faith has made it blow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With flowers many hued and starry-eyed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Here sleeps the sun long, idle summer hours;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here butterflies and bees fare far to rove</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Amid the crumpled leaves of poppy flowers;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here four o’clocks, to the passionate night above</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Fling whiffs of perfume, like pale incense showers.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A little garden, loved with a great love!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-an-early-daffodil" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">To an Early Daffodil</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Thou yellow trumpeter of laggard Spring!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thou herald of rich Summer’s myriad flowers!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The climbing sun with new recovered powers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Does warm thee into being, through the ring</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of rich, brown earth he woos thee, makes thee fling</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thy green shoots up, inheriting the dowers</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of bending sky and sudden, sweeping showers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till ripe and blossoming thou art a thing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To make all nature glad, thou art so gay;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To fill the lonely with a joy untold;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nodding at every gust of wind to-day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To-morrow jewelled with raindrops. Always bold</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To stand erect, full in the dazzling play</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of April’s sun, for thou hast caught his gold.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="listening" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Listening</h2>
				<p>
					<span>‘T is you that are the music, not your song.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The song is but a door which, opening wide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Lets forth the pent-up melody inside,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your spirit’s harmony, which clear and strong</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sings but of you. Throughout your whole life long</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your songs, your thoughts, your doings, each divide</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">This perfect beauty; waves within a tide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or single notes amid a glorious throng.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The song of earth has many different chords;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ocean has many moods and many tones</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Yet always ocean. In the damp Spring woods</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The painted trillium smiles, while crisp pine cones</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Autumn alone can ripen. So is this</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">One music with a thousand cadences.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-lamp-of-life" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Lamp of Life</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Always we are following a light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Always the light recedes; with groping hands</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We stretch toward this glory, while the lands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We journey through are hidden from our sight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dim and mysterious, folded deep in night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We care not, all our utmost need demands</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is but the light, the light! So still it stands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Surely our own if we exert our might.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fool! Never can’st thou grasp this fleeting gleam,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Its glowing flame would die if it were caught,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its value is that it doth always seem</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But just a little farther on. Distraught,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But lighted ever onward, we are brought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon our way unknowing, in a dream.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="hero-worship" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Hero-Worship</h2>
				<p>
					<span>A face seen passing in a crowded street,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A voice heard singing music, large and free;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And from that moment life is changed, and we</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Become of more heroic temper, meet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To freely ask and give, a man complete</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Radiant because of faith, we dare to be</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What Nature meant us. Brave idolatry</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which can conceive a hero! No deceit,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">No knowledge taught by unrelenting years,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Can quench this fierce, untamable desire.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We know that what we long for once achieved</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Will cease to satisfy. Be still our fears;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If what we worship fail us, still the fire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Burns on, and it is much to have believed.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="in-darkness" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">In Darkness</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Must all of worth be travailled for, and those</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Life’s brightest stars rise from a troubled sea?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Must years go by in sad uncertainty</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Leaving us doubting whose the conquering blows,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are we or Fate the victors? Time which shows</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">All inner meanings will reveal, but we</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Shall never know the upshot. Ours to be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wasted with longing, shattered in the throes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The agonies of splendid dreams, which day</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Dims from our vision, but each night brings back;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We strive to hold their grandeur, and essay</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To be the thing we dream. Sudden we lack</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The flash of insight, life grows drear and gray,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And hour follows hour, nerveless, slack.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="before-dawn" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Before Dawn</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Life! Austere arbiter of each man’s fate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By whom he learns that Nature’s steadfast laws</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Are as decrees immutable; O pause</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your even forward march! Not yet too late</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Teach me the needed lesson, when to wait</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Inactive as a ship when no wind draws</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To stretch the loosened cordage. One implores</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy clemency, whose wilfulness innate</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Has gone uncurbed and roughshod while the years</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Have lengthened into decades; now distressed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He knows no rule by which to move or stay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And teased with restlessness and desperate fears</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He dares not watch in silence thy wise way</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Bringing about results none could have guessed.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-poet" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Poet</h2>
				<p>
					<span>What instinct forces man to journey on,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Urged by a longing blind but dominant!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nothing he sees can hold him, nothing daunt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His never failing eagerness. The sun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Setting in splendour every night has won</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His vassalage; those towers flamboyant</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of airy cloudland palaces now haunt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His daylight wanderings. Forever done</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With simple joys and quiet happiness</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He guards the vision of the sunset sky;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though faint with weariness he must possess</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Some fragment of the sunset’s majesty;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He spurns life’s human friendships to profess</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Life’s loneliness of dreaming ecstasy.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="at-night" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">At Night</h2>
				<p>
					<span>The wind is singing through the trees to-night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A deep-voiced song of rushing cadences</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And crashing intervals. No summer breeze</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is this, though hot July is at its height,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gone is her gentler music; with delight</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">She listens to this booming like the seas,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">These elemental, loud necessities</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which call to her to answer their swift might.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Above the tossing trees shines down a star,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Quietly bright; this wild, tumultuous joy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Quickens nor dims its splendour. And my mind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">O Star! is filled with your white light, from far,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">So suffer me this one night to enjoy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The freedom of the onward sweeping wind.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-fruit-garden-path" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Fruit Garden Path</h2>
				<p>
					<span>The path runs straight between the flowering rows,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A moonlit path, hemmed in by beds of bloom,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where phlox and marigolds dispute for room</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With tall, red dahlias and the briar rose.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘T is reckless prodigality which throws</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Into the night these wafts of rich perfume</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Which sweep across the garden like a plume.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Over the trees a single bright star glows.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Dear garden of my childhood, here my years</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Have run away like little grains of sand;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The moments of my life, its hopes and fears</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Have all found utterance here, where now I stand;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My eyes ache with the weight of unshed tears,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You are my home, do you not understand?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="mirage" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Mirage</h2>
				<p>
					<span>How is it that, being gone, you fill my days,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And all the long nights are made glad by thee?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">No loneliness is this, nor misery,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But great content that these should be the ways</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whereby the Fancy, dreaming as she strays,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Makes bright and present what she would would be.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And who shall say if the reality</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is not with dreams so pregnant. For delays</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And hindrances may bar the wished-for end;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A thousand misconceptions may prevent</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Our souls from coming near enough to blend;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let me but think we have the same intent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That each one needs to call the other, “friend!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It may be vain illusion. I’m content.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-a-friend" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">To a Friend</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I ask but one thing of you, only one,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That always you will be my dream of you;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That never shall I wake to find untrue</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All this I have believed and rested on,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forever vanished, like a vision gone</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Out into the night. Alas, how few</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">There are who strike in us a chord we knew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Existed, but so seldom heard its tone</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We tremble at the half-forgotten sound.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The world is full of rude awakenings</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And heaven-born castles shattered to the ground,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet still our human longing vainly clings</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To a belief in beauty through all wrongs.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">O stay your hand, and leave my heart its songs!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-fixed-idea" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">A Fixed Idea</h2>
				<p>
					<span>What torture lurks within a single thought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When grown too constant, and however kind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>However welcome still, the weary mind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Aches with its presence. Dull remembrance taught</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Remembers on unceasingly; unsought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The old delight is with us but to find</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That all recurring joy is pain refined,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Become a habit, and we struggle, caught.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You lie upon my heart as on a nest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Folded in peace, for you can never know</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How crushed I am with having you at rest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Heavy upon my life. I love you so</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You bind my freedom from its rightful quest.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In mercy lift your drooping wings and go.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="dreams" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Dreams</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I do not care to talk to you although</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your speech evokes a thousand sympathies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And all my being’s silent harmonies</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wake trembling into music. When you go</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is as if some sudden, dreadful blow</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Had severed all the strings with savage ease.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">No, do not talk; but let us rather seize</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This intimate gift of silence which we know.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Others may guess your thoughts from what you say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As storms are guessed from clouds where darkness broods.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To me the very essence of the day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reveals its inner purpose and its moods;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As poplars feel the rain and then straightway</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reverse their leaves and shimmer through the woods.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="frankincense-and-myrrh" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Frankincense and Myrrh</h2>
				<p>
					<span>My heart is tuned to sorrow, and the strings</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Vibrate most readily to minor chords,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Searching and sad; my mind is stuffed with words</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which voice the passion and the ache of things:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Illusions beating with their baffled wings</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Against the walls of circumstance, and hoards</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of torn desires, broken joys; records</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of all a bruised life’s maimed imaginings.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Now you are come! You tremble like a star</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Poised where, behind earth’s rim, the sun has set.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Your voice has sung across my heart, but numb</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And mute, I have no tones to answer. Far</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within I kneel before you, speechless yet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">And life ablaze with beauty, I am dumb.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="from-one-who-stays" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">From One Who Stays</h2>
				<p>
					<span>How empty seems the town now you are gone!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A wilderness of sad streets, where gaunt walls</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Hide nothing to desire; sunshine falls</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Eery, distorted, as it long had shone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On white, dead faces tombed in halls of stone.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The whir of motors, stricken through with calls</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of playing boys, floats up at intervals;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But all these noises blur to one long moan.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What quest is worth pursuing? And how strange</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That other men still go accustomed ways!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">I hate their interest in the things they do.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A spectre-horde repeating without change</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An old routine. Alone I know the days</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Are still-born, and the world stopped, lacking you.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="crepuscule-du-matin" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Crépuscule du Matin</h2>
				<p>
					<span>All night I wrestled with a memory</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Which knocked insurgent at the gates of thought.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The crumbled wreck of years behind has wrought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its disillusion; now I only cry</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For peace, for power to forget the lie</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Which hope too long has whispered. So I sought</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The sleep which would not come, and night was fraught</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With old emotions weeping silently.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I heard your voice again, and knew the things</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Which you had promised proved an empty vaunt.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I felt your clinging hands while night’s broad wings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cherished our love in darkness. From the lawn</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A sudden, quivering birdnote, like a taunt.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My arms held nothing but the empty dawn.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="aftermath" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Aftermath</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I learnt to write to you in happier days,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And every letter was a piece I chipped</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From off my heart, a fragment newly clipped</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the mosaic of life; its blues and grays,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its throbbing reds, I gave to earn your praise.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To make a pavement for your feet I stripped</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My soul for you to walk upon, and slipped</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beneath your steps to soften all your ways.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But now my letters are like blossoms pale</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We strew upon a grave with hopeless tears.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I ask no recompense, I shall not fail</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Although you do not heed; the long, sad years</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Still pass, and still I scatter flowers frail,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And whisper words of love which no one hears.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-end" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">The End</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Throughout the echoing chambers of my brain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I hear your words in mournful cadence toll</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like some slow passing-bell which warns the soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of sundering darkness. Unrelenting, fain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To batter down resistance, fall again</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Stroke after stroke, insistent diastole,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The bitter blows of truth, until the whole</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is hammered into fact made strangely plain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where shall I look for comfort? Not to you.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Our worlds are drawn apart, our spirit’s suns</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Divided, and the light of mine burnt dim.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Now in the haunted twilight I must do</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Your will. I grasp the cup which over-runs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And with my trembling lips I touch the rim.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-starling" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h2 epub:type="title">The Starling</h2>
					<blockquote>
						<p>“ ‘I can’t get out’, said the starling.”</p>
						<p class="signature"><strong>Sterne’s</strong> <i epub:type="se.publication.book">Sentimental Journey</i>.</p>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Forever the impenetrable wall</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of self confines my poor rebellious soul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I never see the towering white clouds roll</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before a sturdy wind, save through the small</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Barred window of my jail. I live a thrall</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With all my outer life a clipped, square hole,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Rectangular; a fraction of a scroll</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unwound and winding like a worsted ball.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My thoughts are grown uneager and depressed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Through being always mine, my fancy’s wings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are moulted and the feathers blown away.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I weary for desires never guessed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">For alien passions, strange imaginings,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To be some other person for a day.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="market-day" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Market Day</h2>
				<p>
					<span>White, glittering sunlight fills the market square,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Spotted and sprigged with shadows. Double rows</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of bartering booths spread out their tempting shows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of globed and golden fruit, the morning air</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Smells sweet with ripeness, on the pavement there</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A wicker basket gapes and overflows</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Spilling out cool, blue plums. The market glows,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And flaunts, and clatters in its busy care.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A stately minster at the northern side</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lifts its twin spires to the distant sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pinnacled, carved and buttressed; through the wide</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Arched doorway peals an organ, suddenly⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Crashing, triumphant in its pregnant tide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Quenching the square in vibrant harmony.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epitaph-in-a-church-yard-in-charleston-south-carolina" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h2 epub:type="title">Epitaph in a Church-Yard in Charleston, South Carolina</h2>
					<blockquote>
						<p>George Augustus Clough<br/>
						a Native of Liverpool,<br/>
						Died Suddenly of “Stranger’s Fever”<br/>
						Nov’r 5th 1843<br/>
						Aged 22</p>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>He died of “Stranger’s Fever” when his youth</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Had scarcely melted into manhood, so</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The chiselled legend runs; a brother’s woe</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Laid bare for epitaph. The savage ruth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of a sunny, bright, but alien land, uncouth</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With cruel caressing dealt a mortal blow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And by this summer sea where flowers grow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In tropic splendor, witness to the truth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of ineradicable race he lies.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The law of duty urged that he should roam,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Should sail from fog and chilly airs to skies</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Clear with deceitful welcome. He had come</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With proud resolve, but still his lonely eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ached with fatigue at never seeing home.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="francis-ii-king-of-naples" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h2 epub:type="title">Francis II, King of Naples</h2>
					<p>Written after reading Trevelyan’s “Garibaldi and the making of Italy”</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Poor foolish monarch, vacillating, vain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Decaying victim of a race of kings,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Swift Destiny shook out her purple wings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And caught him in their shadow; not again</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Could furtive plotting smear another stain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Across his tarnished honour. Smoulderings</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of sacrificial fires burst their rings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And blotted out in smoke his lost domain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bereft of courtiers, only with his queen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From empty palace down to empty quay.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No challenge screamed from hostile carabine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A single vessel waited, shadowy;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">All night she ploughed her solitary way</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beneath the stars, and through a tranquil sea.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-john-keats" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">To John Keats</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Great master! Boyish, sympathetic man!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Whose orbed and ripened genius lightly hung</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From life’s slim, twisted tendril and there swung</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In crimson-sphered completeness; guardian</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of crystal portals through whose openings fan</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The spiced winds which blew when earth was young,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Scattering wreaths of stars, as Jove once flung</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A golden shower from heights cerulean.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Crumbled before thy majesty we bow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Forget thy empurpled state, thy panoply</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of greatness, and be merciful and near;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A youth who trudged the highroad we tread now</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Singing the miles behind him; so may we</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Faint throbbings of thy music overhear.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
