<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>The Boston Athenaeum</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="the-boston-athenaeum" epub:type="chapter">
			<article id="the-boston-athenaeum" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Boston Athenaeum</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Thou dear and well-loved haunt of happy hours,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How often in some distant gallery,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gained by a little painful spiral stair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Far from the halls and corridors where throng</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The crowd of casual readers, have I passed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Long, peaceful hours seated on the floor</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of some retired nook, all lined with books,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where reverie and quiet reign supreme!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Above, below, on every side, high shelved</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From careless grasp of transient interest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stand books we can but dimly see, their charm</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Much greater that their titles are unread;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While on a level with the dusty floor</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Others are ranged in orderly confusion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And we must stoop in painful posture while</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We read their names and learn their histories.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The little gallery winds round about</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The middle of a most secluded room,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Midway between the ceiling and the floor.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A type of those high thoughts, which while we read</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hover between the earth and furthest heaven</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As fancy wills, leaving the printed page;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For books but give the theme, our hearts the rest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Enriching simple words with unguessed harmony</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And overtones of thought we only know.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And as we sit long hours quietly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reading at times, and at times simply dreaming,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The very room itself becomes a friend,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The confidant of intimate hopes and fears;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A place where are engendered pleasant thoughts,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And possibilities before unguessed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Come to fruition born of sympathy.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And as in some gay garden stretched upon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A genial southern slope, warmed by the sun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The flowers give their fragrance joyously</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the caressing touch of the hot noon;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So books give up the all of what they mean</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Only in a congenial atmosphere,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Only when touched by reverent hands, and read</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By those who love and feel as well as think.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For books are more than books, they are the life,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The very heart and core of ages past,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The reason why men lived, and worked, and died,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The essence and quintessence of their lives.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And we may know them better, and divine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The inner motives whence their actions sprang,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Far better than the men who only knew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their bodily presence, the soul forever hid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From those with no ability to see.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They wait here quietly for us to come</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And find them out, and know them for our friends;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These men who toiled and wrote only for this,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To leave behind such modicum of truth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As each perceived and each alone could tell.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Silently waiting that from time to time</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It may be given them to illuminate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dull daily facts with pristine radiance</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For some long-waited-for affinity</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who lingers yet in the deep womb of time.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The shifting sun pierces the young green leaves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of elm trees, newly coming into bud,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And splashes on the floor and on the books</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through old, high, rounded windows, dim with age.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The noisy city-sounds of modern life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Float softened to us across the old graveyard.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The room is filled with a warm, mellow light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No garish colours jar on our content,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The books upon the shelves are old and worn.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘T was no belated effort nor attempt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To keep abreast with old as well as new</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That placed them here, tricked in a modern guise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Easily got, and held in light esteem.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our fathers’ fathers, slowly and carefully</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gathered them, one by one, when they were new</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a delighted world received their thoughts</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hungrily; while we but love the more,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because they are so old and grown so dear!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The backs of tarnished gold, the faded boards,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The slightly yellowing page, the strange old type,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All speak the fashion of another age;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The thoughts peculiar to the man who wrote</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Arrayed in garb peculiar to the time;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As though the idiom of a man were caught</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Imprisoned in the idiom of a race.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A nothing truly, yet a link that binds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All ages to their own inheritance,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And stretching backward, dim and dimmer still,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is lost in a remote antiquity.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grapes do not come of thorns nor figs of thistles,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And even a great poet’s divinest thought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is coloured by the world he knows and sees.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The little intimate things of every day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The trivial nothings that we think not of,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These go to make a part of each man’s life;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As much a part as do the larger thoughts</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He takes account of. Nay, the little things</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of daily life it is which mold, and shape,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And make him apt for noble deeds and true.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And as we read some much-loved masterpiece,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Read it as long ago the author read,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With eyes that brimmed with tears as he saw</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The message he believed in stamped in type</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Inviolable for the slow-coming years;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We know a certain subtle sympathy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We seem to clasp his hand across the past,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His words become related to the time,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He is at one with his own glorious creed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all that in his world was dared and done.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The long, still, fruitful hours slip away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shedding their influences as they pass;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We know ourselves the richer to have sat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon this dusty floor and dreamed our dreams.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No other place to us were quite the same,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No other dreams so potent in their charm,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For this is ours! Every twist and turn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of every narrow stair is known and loved;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each nook and cranny is our very own;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The dear, old, sleepy place is full of spells</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For us, by right of long inheritance.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The building simply bodies forth a thought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Peculiarly inherent to the race.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And we, descendants of that elder time,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Have learnt to love the very form in which</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The thought has been embodied to our years.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And here we feel that we are not alone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We too are one with our own richest past;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And here that veiled, but ever smouldering fire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of race, which rarely seen yet never dies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Springs up afresh and warms us with its heat.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And must they take away this treasure house,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To us so full of thoughts and memories;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To all the world beside a dismal place</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lacking in all this modern age requires</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To tempt along the unfamiliar paths</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And leafy lanes of old time literatures?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It takes some time for moss and vines to grow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And warmly cover gaunt and chill stone walls</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of stately buildings from the cold North Wind.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The lichen of affection takes as long,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or longer, ere it lovingly enfolds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A place which since without it were bereft,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All stript and bare, shorn of its chiefest grace.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For what to us were halls and corridors</span>
					<br/>
					<span>However large and fitting, if we part</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With this which is our birthright; if we lose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A sentiment profound, unsoundable,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which Time’s slow ripening alone can make,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And man’s blind foolishness so quickly mar.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
