<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Verses for Children</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="verses-for-children" epub:type="chapter">
			<article id="sea-shell" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Sea Shell</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Sea Shell, Sea Shell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Sing me a song, O Please!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A song of ships, and sailor men,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And parrots, and tropical trees,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Of islands lost in the Spanish Main</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which no man ever may find again,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of fishes and corals under the waves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And seahorses stabled in great green caves.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sea Shell, Sea Shell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sing of the things you know so well.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="fringed-gentians" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Fringed Gentians</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Near where I live there is a lake</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As blue as blue can be, winds make</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It dance as they go blowing by.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I think it curtseys to the sky.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It’s just a lake of lovely flowers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And my Mamma says they are ours;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But they are not like those we grow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To be our very own, you know.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We have a splendid garden, there</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are lots of flowers everywhere;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Roses, and pinks, and four o’clocks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And hollyhocks, and evening stocks.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Mamma lets us pick them, but never</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Must we pick any gentians⁠—ever!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For if we carried them away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They’d die of homesickness that day.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-painted-ceiling" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Painted Ceiling</h2>
				<p>
					<span>My Grandpapa lives in a wonderful house</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With a great many windows and doors,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There are stairs that go up, and stairs that go down,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And such beautiful, slippery floors.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But of all of the rooms, even mother’s and mine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the bookroom, and parlour and all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I like the green dining-room so much the best</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Because of its ceiling and wall.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Right over your head is a funny round hole</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With apples and pears falling through;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There’s a big bunch of grapes all purply and sweet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And melons and pineapples too.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>They tumble and tumble, but never come down</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Though I’ve stood underneath a long while</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With my mouth open wide, for I always have hoped</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Just a cherry would drop from the pile.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No matter how early I run there to look</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It has always begun to fall through;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And one night when at bedtime I crept in to see,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It was falling by candle-light too.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I am sure they are magical fruits, and each one</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Makes you hear things, or see things, or go</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forever invisible; but it’s no use,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And of course I shall just never know.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For the ladder’s too heavy to lift, and the chairs</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Are not nearly so tall as I need.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ve given up hope, and I feel I shall die</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Without having accomplished the deed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It’s a little bit sad, when you seem very near</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To adventures and things of that sort,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which nearly begin, and then don’t; and you know</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It is only because you are short.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-crescent-moon" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Crescent Moon</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Slipping softly through the sky</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Little horned, happy moon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Can you hear me up so high?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Will you come down soon?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>On my nursery window-sill</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Will you stay your steady flight?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then float away with me</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Through the summer night?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Brushing over tops of trees,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Playing hide and seek with stars,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Peeping up through shiny clouds</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">At Jupiter or Mars.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I shall fill my lap with roses</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Gathered in the milky way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All to carry home to mother.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Oh! what will she say!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Little rocking, sailing moon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Do you hear me shout⁠—Ahoy!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Just a little nearer, moon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To please a little boy.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="climbing" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Climbing</h2>
				<p>
					<span>High up in the apple tree climbing I go,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the sky above me, the earth below.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each branch is the step of a wonderful stair</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which leads to the town I see shining up there.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Climbing, climbing, higher and higher,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The branches blow and I see a spire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The gleam of a turret, the glint of a dome,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All sparkling and bright, like white sea foam.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>On and on, from bough to bough,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The leaves are thick, but I push my way through;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before, I have always had to stop,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But to-day I am sure I shall reach the top.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Today to the end of the marvelous stair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where those glittering pinacles flash in the air!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Climbing, climbing, higher I go,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the sky close above me, the earth far below.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-trout" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Trout</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Naughty little speckled trout,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Can’t I coax you to come out?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is it such great fun to play</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the water every day?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Do you pull the Naiads’ hair</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hiding in the lilies there?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Do you hunt for fishes’ eggs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or watch tadpoles grow their legs?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Do the little trouts have school</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In some deep sun-glinted pool,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in recess play at tag</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Round that bed of purple flag?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I have tried so hard to catch you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hours and hours I’ve sat to watch you;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But you never will come out,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Naughty little speckled trout!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="wind" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Wind</h2>
				<p>
					<span>He shouts in the sails of the ships at sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He steals the down from the honeybee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He makes the forest trees rustle and sing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He twirls my kite till it breaks its string.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Laughing, dancing, sunny wind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Whistling, howling, rainy wind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">North, South, East and West,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Each is the wind I like the best.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He calls up the fog and hides the hills,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He whirls the wings of the great windmills,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The weathercocks love him and turn to discover</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His whereabouts⁠—but he’s gone, the rover!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Laughing, dancing, sunny wind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Whistling, howling, rainy wind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">North, South, East and West,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Each is the wind I like the best.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The pine trees toss him their cones with glee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The flowers bend low in courtesy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each wave flings up a shower of pearls,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The flag in front of the school unfurls.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Laughing, dancing, sunny wind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Whistling, howling, rainy wind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">North, South, East and West,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Each is the wind I like the best.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-pleiades" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Pleiades</h2>
				<p>
					<span>By day you cannot see the sky</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For it is up so very high.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You look and look, but it’s so blue</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That you can never see right through.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But when night comes it is quite plain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all the stars are there again.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They seem just like old friends to me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ve known them all my life you see.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>There is the dipper first, and there</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is Cassiopeia in her chair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Orion’s belt, the Milky Way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lots I know but cannot say.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>One group looks like a swarm of bees,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Papa says they’re the Pleiades;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I think they must be the toy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of some nice little angel boy.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Perhaps his jackstones which to-day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He has forgot to put away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And left them lying on the sky</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where he will find them bye and bye.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I wish he’d come and play with me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We’d have such fun, for it would be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A most unusual thing for boys</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To feel that they had stars for toys!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
